DEVLOG ZERO:

This is devlog zero for my videogame project: I've been working on this for a while, or perhaps I should say: it's been a while since I started working on it. In this video, we're going to talk about inspirations for the project. There are a few that I find particularly relevant, and if you know me in real life, I'm pretty sure you'll be able to guess what each of them are before I've even started. 

We begin with the core mechanics: basically the only math that I have an affinity for is probability, possibly from the years of rolling dice and flipping cards as a wastrel adolescent. Sadly, I didn't do this to get rich in Monte Carlo, I did quite the opposite: Magic cards are expensive, and this was before RPGs became big business. Digressions aside, my inspiration for the game's core mechanic was shadowrun- or maybe world of darkness, there's overlap between the two. The core mechanic for both of these games was roll some number of dice, see how many exceed a target number, and return that number of successes. Both of these games had some situation where a roll of the die's maximum value would give you a success, and then allow you to roll another die, commonly referred to as exploding dice. I followed this up by introducing something that's referred to as dice stepping or dice chaining: instead of applying a bonus or penalty to the die's value, we increase or decrease the size of the die. Here's a quick thought experiment, although it's probably intuitive enough: Which is more likely to get a result of five or more: a ten or six sided die? 

You should be able to solve this.

You should also be able to solve the next one: Which is more likely to explode and succeed again? The ten or six sided one?

I counted on my fingers, and even in base 11, the results are the same. 1/6*2/6 = 1/18. 1/10*6/10 = 6/100 = 3/50.

This example was a trick question! The d10 is still more likely, by slightly less than half a percent, to succeed. Clearly the numbers need to be twiddled with: if the target number is a four, for example, the d6 has an 8.3 (cut to Leeroy Jenkins "repeating of course"), versus the d10's 7%. 

What've we got here? Dice chaining and number fiddling: that's all interesting enough, but you can just write an R script and make an autobattler or something. There has to be more!

This is where the aesthetic and deeper gameplay inspirations come in: I'd blather with some preamble, but that's nto what we want: I don't think anyone's in the mood for an atypical voyage. Anyway, Strange Journey: (cut to strange journey exploration). It's smooth, it's comfy, and I really like it: I've played a lot of the Shin Megami Tensei games over the years, and while Nocturne is probably my favourite, there was something transcendent about the original Strange Journey. I'll save going off on Redux for a bit (it's okay), but the godawful DS graphics gave the game a claustrophobic, suffocating feel. I think I'm getting off topic again: I really like Strange Journey, and the viewpoint and plodding, stressful, methodical pace is something I'd like to go for in the environment.

I didn't just want misery and tension for their own sake: I'd also realized that I simply don't want to do level design at this stage in the project, so I introduced myself to roguelikes again: I'd played a great deal of Going Under and Slay the Spire at the time I was initially planning this project, and I knew the roguelike structure would work well for these experimental, slightly janky (show screenshot of Slime Hydra) mechanics. Thus, the plan of a hub world leading into various locations began to take shape.

Finally, the writing: despite being longwinded, I find it difficult to give the things I write full gravitas, so I went for comedy: interestingly, puns and combinatorics, thus: probability are affected by the same part of the brain. It follows that I'm bad at real mathematics and real humor in much the same way. Digressing somewhat, I've often felt like humor and horror can overlap. A jump scare and a well timed socially unacceptable word are very similar.